1. What is Computer?

- According to TechTargetContibutor(n.d.) a computer is a device that accepts information (in the form of digitalized data) and manipulates it for some result based on a program, software, or sequence of instructions on how the data is to be processed.

What are the essential parts of the computer? 
- CPU
- MOTHERBOARD
- HARD DRIVE
- POWER SUPPLY
- COMPUTER KEYBOARD
- MOUSE
- MONITOR
- HARDWARE AND STORAGE

2. What are the notable inventors of hardware and software?

SOFTWARE DEVELOPERS:

1.  Brian Wilson Kernighan(1942) - is a Canadian computer scientist. Kernighan's name became widely known through co-authorship of the first book on the C programming language (The C Programming Language) with Dennis Ritchie

2. Kenneth Lane Thompson(1943) - is an American pioneer of computer science. Thompson worked at Bell Labs for most of his career where he designed and implemented the original Unix operating system. He also invented the B programming language, the direct predecessor to the C language, and was one of the creators and early developers of the Plan 9 operating system. Since 2006, Thompson has worked at Google, where he co-developed the Go language. 

3. William Henry Gates III(1955) - Bill Gates diversified his fortune from software firm Microsoft into dozens of holdings, including waste disposal firm Republic Services and tractor maker Deere & Co.

4. Guido Van Rossum(1956) - is a Dutch programmer. He is the creator of the Python programming language, for which he was the "benevolent dictator for life" (BDFL) 

5. Mark Elliot Zuckerberg(1984) - is an American businessman. He co-founded the social media service Facebook and its parent company Meta Platforms (formerly Facebook, Inc.), of which he is chairman, chief executive officer and controlling shareholder. Zuckerberg has been the subject of multiple lawsuits regarding the creation and ownership of the website as well as issues of user privacy. 

HARDWARE DEVELOPERS:

1. Microsoft - Microsoft was founded by Bill Gates and Paul Allen on April 4, 1975, to develop and sell BASIC interpreters for the Altair 8800. It rose to dominate the personal computer operating system market with MS-DOS in the mid-1980s, followed by Windows

2. Apple INC - Is an American multinational technology company that revolutionized the technology sector through its innovation of computer software, personal computers, mobile tablets, smartphones, and computer peripherals. Founded by Steve Jobs and Steve Wozniak in 1976, Apple set new benchmarks in product innovation, user-centric functionality, aesthetics and design, and multiproduct integration. 

3. Sony - Major Japanese manufacturer of consumer electronics products whose diverse activities have included films, music, and financial services, among other ventures. It has been one of the most successful and multifaceted brands in marketing history. The company was incorporated by Ibuka Masaru and Morita Akio in 1946 as Tokyo Tsushin Kogyo (“Tokyo Telecommunications Engineering Corporation”). 

4. Samsung - Samsung specializes in the production of a wide variety of consumer and industry electronics, including appliances, digital media devices, semiconductors, memory chips, and integrated systems. It has become one of the most-recognizable names in technology and produces about a fifth of South Korea's total exports. Samsung was founded as a grocery trading store on March 1, 1938, by Lee Byung-Chull.

5. Adobe - Edit, organize, store, and share photos on desktop, mobile, and the web. Create graphics and illustrations to use in your projects. Play with layouts, page designs, and more for publishing. Create and share online videos anywhere. Adobe was founded in December 1982[4] by John Warnock and Charles Geschke, who established the company after leaving Xerox PARC to develop and sell the PostScript page description language. In 1985, Apple Computer licensed PostScript for use in its LaserWriter printers, which helped spark the desktop publishing revolution

REFERENCES:

SOFTWARE DEVELOPERS APA CITE:
Wikipedia contributors. (2024, July 15). Brian Kernighan. Wikipedia. https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Brian_Kernighan
Wikipedia contributors. (2024b, July 3). Ken Thompson. Wikipedia. https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ken_Thompson
Bill Gates. (n.d.). Forbes. https://www.forbes.com/profile/bill-gates/
Wikipedia contributors. (2024c, July 13). Guido van Rossum. Wikipedia. https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Guido_van_Rossum
Wikipedia contributors. (2024e, August 3). Mark Zuckerberg. Wikipedia. https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mark_Zuckerberg

HARDWARE DEVELOPERS APA CITE:
Wikipedia contributors. (2024f, August 9). Microsoft. Wikipedia. https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Microsoft
Britannica money. (2024, August 12). https://www.britannica.com/money/Apple-Inc
Britannica money. (2024a, August 8). https://www.britannica.com/money/Sony
Britannica money. (2024c, August 12). https://www.britannica.com/money/Samsung-Electronics
Wikipedia contributors. (2024e, August 3). Adobe Inc. Wikipedia. https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Adobe_Inc.

